# decision_tree

## Couple of thoughts about this as i go along. First of all the model part of this problem is the most technical but its also the most solved so I will be working on it a bit towards the end. I think that building the framework around a project is important here.
### The model will be built from two classes Node and Model. The Node is where we can store all node data while the model will perform the recurrsion and allow for the application of the cost function Gini or Entropy.
### Notes about the data: I do recognize that this is a toy dataset so not exhaustive but i would like to point out some notes here. The data itself does need new features as the features of color and number of legs are clearly weak when it comes to the animal kingdom on the whole but we know that. Next I would point out that the categorical variables here (which number of legs technically is as well since the varable has a finite number of answers even if we include insects). 
### In an atempt to do a better job with our features given i would recommend (given time i might try it) that color at least is embedded using glove or other embedding models. One hot encoding or indexing here does not properly represent the distance between the colors and in future i could see this as an space to have access to (animals change color depending on diet, habitat, danger level, and where they are on the food chain hence it could be a good feature in the future)

###I got far enough to show the outline I think alothought my code is not running all the way through due  to a few data structure bugs. I think i have left most of my thoughts on the parts of the code in the code itself. I would also note that I would like to have added a graphical output to this problem as well some logging with weights and biases or mlflow (or similar applicatioin). I also think that the code could use some work to make it more generalizable but with the strange column names it is of course harder to do with this sort of data. Inside an institution I think that it is important to make sure that engineers/scientists are writing resusalbe code whenever possible but also that the data being collected is stored in formats that make everyones lives better. Typing checks as well as clear names are key so that the eng dont have to spend time writing strange checks like my code used to lowercase and join the columns (tho this is minor).

### Also here i will not bother with a train test split since there is 4 data points.

